✨ Create `amp-tiktok` component. (#32651)
ampproject/amphtml: extensions/amp-tiktok/amp-tiktok.md

applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# amp-tiktok

<!--
  If the component is relevant for more than one format and operates differently between these
  formats, include and filter multiple content blocks and code samples.
-->

## Usage

The simplest usage of the `amp-tiktok` component has the `width`, `height` and `data-src` attributes. This will display the Tiktok embed inside of an iframe on the page.

```html
<amp-tiktok
  width="325"
  height="575"
  data-src="6718335390845095173"
></amp-tiktok>
```

> `amp-tiktok` does not support autoplay and requires user interaction to play videos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

### Behavior

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `amp-tiktok` component displays the TikToc video in an iframe. You may specify the `width`, `height` and `data-src` attributes. `amp-tiktok` does not support autoplay and requires user interaction to play videos.
```

## Avoiding Layout shift

> The `width` and `height` attributes determine the initial laid out height of the Tiktok embedded in the page.
> 
> However, we set the width of the Tiktok iframe player to be 325px wide. This results in a height of roughly 575px for the video player, however the full height of the player depends on the length and content of the Tiktok caption. (These values represent current behavior and subject to change).
> 
> In order to show the entire height of the video, this component will resize its height to include the full player height. Therefore in order to avoid layout shift it is best to match the `width` and `height` attributes to those values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prevent layout shift by matching the `width` and `height` attributes on the `amp-tictok` element to the size of the video player. 

By default, the width of the TikTok iframe player is set to 325px, resulting in a hight of roughly 575px for the video player. The default height of the player depends on the length and content of the TikToc caption. To show the entire video, the `amp-tiktoc` component resizes to match the player height. You can avoid this by defining the width and height to match the video. 
```

Reviewer: Hopefully QQ - can you explain the relationship between `amp-tiktoc`, the TicTok video itself, the TicTok video player, and the iframe? Or is `amp-tiktoc`/TicToc video player/iframe all one in the same?

Author: So the `amp-tiktok` component contains an `iframe` which then itself contains the TikTok embedded player. The TikTok embedded player can be one of two aspect ratios, however in order to minimize the potential for CLS we are restricting this to the vertical aspect ratio. 

Regarding width: 
The `amp-tiktok` component can be as wide as the user wants to specify it. The `iframe` will be sized to 325px wide, and centered within the full width of the `amp-tiktok` component. 

Regarding Height:
The TikTok player resizes to its full height after its laid out. The video part of the embed is the 575px described above however the full height of the embed includes the caption space underneath. However that height is variable based on the length of the caption provided by the user. Our resize fallback resizes the component to be 775px high which we hope will encompass the full height of a TikTok with any length of caption. However, in order to prevent layout shift the developer will have to make sure that the height which they set on the `amp-tiktok` component is at minimum the final height of the TikTok embed, otherwise the resize will cause a layout shift.

Does that make sense?

Reviewer: Yes, thank you! I've updated the documentation to reflect this (hopefully) better - last question, do you know how I can dynamically check the size of the TikTok player/video? Or is this done on an individual video bases?

Author: As far as I can tell it needs to be done on a video by video basis. The component gets the final value from the messages we receive from TikTok itself. But for sanity checks and investigation I've been just inspecting them using chrome dev tools.

[example preview="inline" playground="true" imports="amp-tiktok"]

```html
<amp-tiktok
  width="325"
  height="731"
  data-src="6718335390845095173"
></amp-tiktok>
```

[/example]

If you choose to set the width to a value which is greater than 325px, the `iframe` will remain 325px and will be horizontally centered in that space. The surrounding space will be empty.

If you choose to set the height of to a value which is which is greater than the height the height will remain the height of the `iframe`.

## Attributes

### `data-src`

> The `data-src` attribute can contain one of two values: a **video id** or a **full URL** to a Tiktok detail page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `data-src` attribute can contain one of two values: a **video id** or a **full URL** to a TikTok detail page.
```

Author: In the TikTok branding they capitalize both T's should we be doing the same? or is 'Tiktok' more correct?

Reviewer: I usually follow the company branding. I imagine seeing `Tictok` is a lot like seeing `Youtube` - everyone will understand, but its slightllllly off. lol

Author: Sounds good! Thanks!

  text: Displays a TikTok embed.  
experimental: true
---

<!--
Copyright 2021 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# amp-tiktok

<!--
  If the component is relevant for more than one format and operates differently between these
  formats, include and filter multiple content blocks and code samples.
-->

## Usage

The simplest usage of the `amp-tiktok` component has the `width`, `height` and `data-src` attributes. This will display the Tiktok embed inside of an iframe on the page.

```html
 <amp-tiktok width="325" height="575" data-src="6718335390845095173">
```

`amp-tiktok` does not support autoplay and requires user interaction to play videos.

> ### Behavior users should be aware of (optional)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Behavior
```

## Avoiding Layout shift

The `width` and `height` attributes determine the initial laid out height of the Tiktok embedded in the page.

> However, the Tiktok player has a width of 325px and a height of 575px.

Reviewer 2: This is not true.

1. We set it to 325px ourselves for sure.
2. This may result as 575px high, roughly. The height depends on the text description, which is a shame. Though we should mention that.

We should also mention that these values are subject to change.

In order to show the entire height of the video, this component will resize its height to include the full player height. Therefore in order to avoid layout shift it is best to match the `width` and `height` attributes to those values.

```html

>  <amp-tiktok width="325" height="575" data-src="6718335390845095173">

Reviewer 2: closing tag
```suggestion
<amp-tiktok width="325" height="575" data-src="6718335390845095173">
</amp-tiktok>
```

Reviewer 2: Also, can we make this [an interactive snippet](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/amp-list/)? See `amp-list.md` for snippet syntax.

```

> If you choose to set the width and height to values greater than those which are reccomended, the TikTok player will still remain at those dimensions, and the surrounding space will be empty.

Reviewer 2: >the TikTok player will still remain at those dimensions

This is true only for width but not for height, right?

## Attributes

### `width`

The `width` attribute represents the width of the `amp-tiktok` element.
However the `iframe` child element will be set to '325px'.

### `height`

The `height` refers to the size of the `amp-tiktok` element. However the Tiktok player is '575px' tall. If the `height` that is set is less than '575px' then the element will resize to fit that new height. This will cause layout shift.

> In order to prevent layout shifting, the `height` should set to be at least '575px'.

Reviewer 2: Let's remove these since they're part of common attributes and the layout system. I would say you should mention this as part of Behavior above.

### `data-src`

> The `data-src` attribute can contain one of two values. Either it can contain the video-id or the full source url for the TikTok.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `data-src` attribute can contain one of two values: a **video id** or a **full URL** to a TikTok detail page.
```

Example with video-id

```html

>  <amp-tiktok width="325" height="575" data-src="6718335390845095173">

Reviewer 2: closing tag.
```suggestion
<amp-tiktok width="325" height="575" data-src="6718335390845095173">
</amp-tiktok>
```

```

Example with source url:

```html

>     <amp-tiktok
>       width="325 "
>       height="575"
>       data-src="https://www.tiktok.com/@scout2015/video/6718335390845095173"
>     >

Reviewer 2: closing tag
```suggestion
<amp-tiktok
  width="325"
  height="575"
  data-src="https://www.tiktok.com/@scout2015/video/6718335390845095173"
></amp-tiktok>
```

```

In liu of the `data-src` attribute, `amp-tiktok` also allows the use of the TikTok generated embed code to display.

To use this method copy the blockquote from the TikTok Embed code:

1. Go to the desktop page of the TikTok you wish to embed

> 2. Click the embed link icon (`</>`)

Reviewer 2: I think we should refer [to the 3p docs](https://developers.tiktok.com/doc/Embed) for these steps.

3. Copy the embed code and add it as a child element of the `amp-tiktok` element.
4. Add the `placeholder` attribute to the `blockquote`.
5. Remove the `style` attribute from the `blockquote`.

> ```html

Reviewer 2: This is indented weird, [run it through prettier](https://prettier.io/playground/#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-lkdvKzs3u+Lge7wwj5FRlekycXKw6A+gw2IEGAT6OJmG54gS+bLuO8j7iWIBllyla8outaXqmCogXwhAQQhiFdsBxwEeBH5-hCn7kPK6q0b+47QdmW7wbRE6xoBICADZk5CJoIvzoE6c7aFANDkLgzoECyLKQQoyGHuW3JVg+55CrEmDaC44GxAJAhCSouCieJuD1PUYidBIvTmaUzQ9CCpTycOfH6YZ5AmRJUmELJVGMt+iixLC8IEIiEbyqo6haLo8AjgOOD4GpkIgAANCAEDYAiUAuMgoBrrYECUAACmuCA5SgwmUOgJw5WlSi6ho2KaimoRQAIyAut6aW+P4NA2DQAAyhJeq2ABiiZXByvztRVBQQKlqEwJgKgAOr0GEPotXAmplWEBDVKcyDgG4C2-LCtgwEVuoCFcyAssJsJpQAVi41wAEINUQTUWgNvxwHdD1wM9r2atN5wAIoxf9SD3Soj3Tmu51HcIy0Ldgti-DAK0AvQyASGl6MQLCK26tgR3oz6diVP9aU6HocBXRl5UgOgLi4FAcABAEC3MjoBDMldqa3TDgNpbCPwdbYXUgDpbUQ1DANw0DICzEo2MPMghRpS66AECo00AMJCsLIA+mUC3aXAAAq6BKOVsPw5U3o2uJCAwNqGOZQAguJmqnOciuwgAvkHQA).

        style="max-width: 605px; min-width: 325px"
      >
        <section>
          <a
            target="_blank"
            title="@scout2015"
            href="https://www.tiktok.com/@scout2015"
            >@scout2015</a
          >
          <p>
            Scramble up ur name & I’ll try to guess it😍❤️
            <a
              title="foryoupage"
              target="_blank"
              href="https://www.tiktok.com/tag/foryoupage"
              >#foryoupage</a
            >
            <a
              title="petsoftiktok"
              target="_blank"
              href="https://www.tiktok.com/tag/petsoftiktok"
              >#petsoftiktok</a
            >
            <a
              title="aesthetic"
              target="_blank"
              href="https://www.tiktok.com/tag/aesthetic"
              >#aesthetic</a
            >
          </p>
          <a
            target="_blank"
            title="♬ original sound - tiff"
            href="https://www.tiktok.com/music/original-sound-6689804660171082501"
            >♬ original sound - tiff</a
          >
        </section>
      </blockquote>
    </amp-tiktok>
```

## Accessibility (optional)

> The `aria-title` will be set to 'TikTok'.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this should be the case. It should instead cascade: (also `aria`**`-label`**, not `-title`)

1. If `<amp-tiktok aria-label>` is provided, it's propagated to the iframe: `<iframe aria-label>`
2. If we can get metada (per full URL), it should be `TikTok: [TIKTOK DESCRIPTION]`
3. Otherwise, just set to `TikTok`

Author: The PR which adds the metadata functionality is separate from this one, should I add the second cascade step in that PR for clarity and simply describe scenarios 1 and 3 here?

Reviewer 2: Yep, let's skip 2 on this PR and propagate/document aria-label here.

## Validation

See [amp-tiktok rules](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/extensions/amp-tiktok/validator-amp-tiktok.protoascii) in the AMP validator specification.

> ```
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
